Definition of Desflurane *What is Desflurane???* 

Desflurane (1,2,2,2-tetrafluoroethyl difluoromethyl ether) is a highly fluorinated methyl ethyl ether used for maintenance of general anesthesia. Like halothane, enflurane, and isoflurane, it is a racemic mixture of (R) and (S) optical isomers (enantiomers). Together with sevoflurane, it is gradually replacing isoflurane for human use, except in economically undeveloped areas, where its high cost precludes its use. It has the most rapid onset and offset of the volatile anesthetic drugs used for general anesthesia due to its low solubility in blood.
Some drawbacks of desflurane are its low potency, its pungency and its high cost (though at low flow fresh gas rates, the cost difference between desflurane and isoflurane appears to be insignificant[1]. It may cause tachycardia and airway irritability when administered at concentrations greater than 10 vol%. Due to this airway irritability, desflurane is infrequently used to induce anesthesia via inhalation techniques.
Though it vaporises very readily, it is a liquid at room temperature. Anaesthetic machines are fitted with a specialized anaesthetic vaporiser unit that heats liquid desflurane to a constant temperature. This enables the agent to be available at a constant vapor pressure, negating the effects fluctuating ambient temperatures would otherwise have on its concentration imparted into the fresh gas flow of the anesthesia machine.
Desflurane, along with enflurane and to a lesser extent isoflurane, has been shown to react with the carbon dioxide absorbent in anesthesia circuits to produce detectable levels of carbon monoxide through degradation of the anesthetic agent. The CO2 absorbent Baralyme, when dried, is most culpable for the production of carbon monoxide from desflurane degradation, although it is also seen with soda lime absorbent as well. Dry conditions in the carbon dioxide absorbent are conducive to this phenomenon, such as those resulting from high fresh gas flows.

**Indonesian
Desfluran (1,2,2,2-tetrafluoroetil difluorometil eter) adalah methyl ethy ether yang sangat terfluorinasi yang digunakan untuk pemeliharaan anestesi umum. Seperti halotan, enfluran, dan isofluran, campuran rasemat dari (R) dan (S) isomer optik (enansiomer). Bersama dengan sevofluran, secara bertahap mengganti isofluran untuk penggunaan manusia, kecuali di daerah yang belum berkembang secara ekonomi, di mana biaya yang tinggi menghalangi penggunaannya. Ini memiliki onset paling cepat dan mengimbangi obat anestesi volatil yang digunakan untuk anestesi umum karena kelarutannya yang rendah dalam darah.
Beberapa kekurangan desfluran adalah potensi rendahnya, kepadatannya dan biaya yang tinggi (walaupun dengan laju aliran gas segar yang rendah, perbedaan biaya antara desfluran dan isofluran tampaknya tidak signifikan. Hal ini dapat menyebabkan takikardia dan iritabilitas saluran napas saat diberikan pada konsentrasi lebih besar dari 10 vol%. Karena iritabilitas saluran napas ini, desfluran jarang digunakan untuk menginduksi anestesi melalui teknik inhalasi.
Meskipun menguap sangat mudah, ini adalah cairan pada suhu kamar. Mesin anestesi dilengkapi dengan unit penguap anestesi khusus yang memanaskan desriguran cair sampai suhu konstan. Hal ini memungkinkan agen tersebut tersedia pada tekanan uap konstan, yang meniadakan efek yang berfluktuasi pada suhu lingkungan jika tidak ada konsentrasinya yang diberikan ke aliran gas segar dari mesin anestesi.
Desfluran, bersama dengan enfluran dan pada tingkat yang lebih rendah isofluran, telah terbukti bereaksi dengan penyerap karbon dioksida dalam sirkuit anestesi untuk menghasilkan kadar karbon monoksida yang terdeteksi melalui degradasi agen anestesi. Baralyme penyerap CO2, bila dikeringkan, paling berbahaya untuk produksi karbon monoksida dari degradasi desfluran, meskipun juga terlihat dengan penyerap kapur soda juga. Kondisi kering penyerap karbon dioksida kondusif terhadap fenomena ini, seperti yang diakibatkan oleh aliran gas segar yang tinggi.
